# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

property.rb in the Property class

Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?

.save, .delete, .update() etc. triggers a modification to the database in the Property class called from console.rb

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

we don't know what number id the database has reached, so we trust it to assign a new unique id to what we pass to it.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

We use RETURNING to receive the id back from the SQL database.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

So we can't assign the same ID twice.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

Class methods are required when you want an action to take effect over the whole class, whereas an instance method applies only to the specific instance of the class it was called to operate on.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

returns a Property object and we can access its id using @id

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

to avoid mistakes and repeating ourselves

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

id and address, strings

Q11. What are their return values?

they return an array containing a hash that we can map to a Property.
